in this video let us learn about Head recursion
a recursive function is head recursive When the recursive
call is the first thing executed by the function See
here the Recursive call a fun is placed
at the beginning of the function and this will be
executed first
let us take an example Programme and understand how head recursion
works
Let us take a string a b c D and
print it using head Recursion see here the recursive call
is placed at the beginning of the function The printing
operation happens while returning only initially str will point the
character a so this code will be pushed into the
stack first it first checks If value at str is
equal to null character it is not so call head
recur of str plus one So str will
now point B so this code is now pushed into
stack and now check If value at str equal to null
character again it is not so The recursive call is
meet So str now points to C and check If
Star str equal to null character It is not so again
The recursive call happens here str points to D and this
code is pushed into the stack
So again check if conditions and it fails
So the next recursive call happens and here the if
condition is satisfied so control returns and this function code
is popped out from the stack
Now in this returning process the printing operation takes place
So here D is printed and this code is completed
now and it is popped out from the stack
Now C is printed and similarly B and A are
printed and these function calls are popped out of this
stack as well
So in Head recursion the recursive call will be
made first and then the logic of the function is
executed
But in tail recursion the logic of the function
will be executed first and then the recursive call will
be made at the end
So that's all
And in the next video we will learn about nested recursion.